README.md, before:

# Jira Timesheet Free Report Generator

A lightweight, secure web application for generating timesheet reports from Jira worklogs. Built with vanilla JavaScript and Python, this tool allows you to easily track time spent across Jira issues with no external dependencies, and for free.

## Features

- Secure handling of Jira API credentials
- Generate detailed worklog reports
- Filter by date range and project
- Export to CSV format
- Direct links to Jira issues
- Save/load configuration locally
- Zero external dependencies

## Project Structure

```
jira-hours/
├── static/              # Static assets
│   ├── index.html      # Main HTML file
│   ├── script.js       # JavaScript code
│   └── styles.css      # CSS styles
├── server.py           # Python proxy server
├── LICENSE            # MIT license
└── README.md         # This file
```

## Security Considerations

### API Credentials
- The application uses a local proxy server to handle Jira API requests
- Credentials are never stored on the server, only forwarded to Jira
- All configuration data is stored locally in your browser
- SSL verification is enforced for all Jira API requests

### CORS and Network Security
- The proxy server only accepts requests from localhost
- CORS headers are properly configured
- No external network requests except to your Jira instance

## Why a Proxy Server?

### The CORS Challenge
When making direct requests from a web browser to the Jira API, you'll encounter CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) restrictions. This is a security feature implemented by browsers that prevents web pages from making requests to a different domain than the one that served the web page.

For example, if your page is served from `localhost:8000`, the browser will block direct requests to `your-company.atlassian.net` unless the Jira server explicitly allows it through CORS headers.

### Security Implications
1. **Jira's CORS Policy**: Atlassian intentionally doesn't allow arbitrary domains to access their API directly from browsers. This prevents malicious websites from making unauthorized requests using stored cookies or credentials.

2. **Client-side Credentials**: Without a proxy, you'd need to include your API token in the frontend JavaScript code, which would:
   - Make your credentials visible in the browser's source code
   - Risk exposure through browser developer tools
   - Make it difficult to update credentials without changing the code

### How the Proxy Solves These Issues
Our proxy server:
1. Runs locally on your machine
2. Receives requests from the web interface
3. Adds your credentials server-side
4. Forwards the authenticated request to Jira
5. Returns the response to the web interface

This approach:
- Keeps API credentials secure on the server side
- Avoids CORS restrictions (browser -> localhost is allowed)
- Provides a clean separation between frontend and API interaction
- Allows for additional security measures (rate limiting, request validation, etc.)

### Alternative Approaches (and Why We Didn't Use Them)
1. **Browser Extensions**: Could bypass CORS but requires installation and maintenance
2. **CORS Proxy Services**: Third-party services exist but would expose your credentials
3. **Jira OAuth**: More complex to set up and requires admin access to create apps
4. **Standalone Desktop App**: Would solve CORS but lose the convenience of web deployment

Our local proxy strikes the right balance between security, simplicity, and usability.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.6 or higher
- A Jira Cloud instance
- A Jira API token (can be generated from your Atlassian account settings)

## Quick Start

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/jira-hours.git
   cd jira-hours
   ```

2. Start the server:
   ```bash
   python server.py
   ```

3. Open your browser and navigate to:
   ```
   http://localhost:8000
   ```

## Configuration

You'll need the following information from your Jira instance:

1. **Jira Domain**: Your Atlassian domain (e.g., `your-domain.atlassian.net`)
2. **Email**: Your Atlassian account email
3. **API Token**: Generate from [Atlassian Account Settings](https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens)
4. **User Account ID**: Your Atlassian account ID (found in your profile URL)

Optional filters:
- Project Key (e.g., "PROJ")
- Start Date
- End Date

## Usage

1. Enter your Jira credentials and configuration
2. Click "Generate Report"
3. View your worklog data in the table
4. Download as CSV:
   - Detailed report includes all worklog entries
   - Summary report shows daily totals

## Deployment Options

### Local Development
```bash
python server.py
```
Then visit `http://localhost:8000`

### Production Deployment

For production use, consider:

1. **Reverse Proxy**: Set up nginx/Apache in front of the Python server
2. **HTTPS**: Configure SSL certificates for secure communication
3. **Process Manager**: Use supervisor or systemd to manage the Python process
4. **Access Control**: Restrict access to trusted networks/users

Example nginx configuration:
```nginx
server {
    listen 443 ssl;
    server_name your-domain.com;

    ssl_certificate /path/to/cert.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key /path/to/key.pem;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:8000;
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    }
}
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Add favicon, fix all remaining bugs. Upset people with consolidate commit.

README.md, after:

# Jira Timesheet Free Report Generator

A lightweight, secure web application for generating timesheet reports from Jira worklogs. Built with vanilla JavaScript and Python, this tool allows you to easily track time spent across Jira issues with no external dependencies, and for free.

## Features

- Secure handling of Jira API credentials
- Generate detailed worklog reports
- Filter by date range and project
- Export to CSV format
- Direct links to Jira issues
- Save/load configuration locally
- Zero external dependencies
- Responsive design with automatic light/dark theme support

## Project Structure

```
jira-timesheet-free/
├── static/              # Static assets
│   ├── index.html      # Main HTML file
│   ├── script.js       # JavaScript code
│   └── styles.css      # CSS styles
├── server.py           # Python proxy server
├── LICENSE            # MIT license
└── README.md         # This file
```

## Security Considerations

### API Credentials
- The application uses a local proxy server to handle Jira API requests
- Credentials are never stored on the server, only forwarded to Jira
- All configuration data is stored locally in your browser
- SSL verification is enforced for all Jira API requests

### CORS and Network Security
- The proxy server only accepts requests from localhost
- CORS headers are properly configured
- No external network requests except to your Jira instance

## Why a Proxy Server?

### The CORS Challenge
When making direct requests from a web browser to the Jira API, you'll encounter CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) restrictions. This is a security feature implemented by browsers that prevents web pages from making requests to a different domain than the one that served the web page.

For example, if your page is served from `localhost:8000`, the browser will block direct requests to `your-company.atlassian.net` unless the Jira server explicitly allows it through CORS headers.

### Security Implications
1. **Jira's CORS Policy**: Atlassian intentionally doesn't allow arbitrary domains to access their API directly from browsers. This prevents malicious websites from making unauthorized requests using stored cookies or credentials.

2. **Client-side Credentials**: Without a proxy, you'd need to include your API token in the frontend JavaScript code, which would:
   - Make your credentials visible in the browser's source code
   - Risk exposure through browser developer tools
   - Make it difficult to update credentials without changing the code

### How the Proxy Solves These Issues
Our proxy server:
1. Runs locally on your machine
2. Receives requests from the web interface
3. Adds your credentials server-side
4. Forwards the authenticated request to Jira
5. Returns the response to the web interface

This approach:
- Keeps API credentials secure on the server side
- Avoids CORS restrictions (browser -> localhost is allowed)
- Provides a clean separation between frontend and API interaction
- Allows for additional security measures (rate limiting, request validation, etc.)

### Alternative Approaches (and Why We Didn't Use Them)
1. **Browser Extensions**: Could bypass CORS but requires installation and maintenance
2. **CORS Proxy Services**: Third-party services exist but would expose your credentials
3. **Jira OAuth**: More complex to set up and requires admin access to create apps
4. **Standalone Desktop App**: Would solve CORS but lose the convenience of web deployment

Our local proxy strikes the right balance between security, simplicity, and usability.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.6 or higher
- A Jira Cloud instance
- A Jira API token (can be generated from your Atlassian account settings)

## Quick Start

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/jira-timesheet-free.git
   cd jira-timesheet-free
   ```

2. Start the server:
   ```bash
   python server.py
   ```

3. Open your browser and navigate to:
   ```
   http://localhost:8000
   ```

## Configuration

You'll need the following information from your Jira instance:

1. **Jira Domain**: Your Atlassian domain (e.g., `your-domain.atlassian.net`)
2. **Email**: Your Atlassian account email
3. **API Token**: Generate from [Atlassian Account Settings](https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens)
4. **Timesheet User Email**: Email of the user whose timesheet you want to generate (leave empty to use your own email)

Optional filters:
- Project Key (e.g., "PROJ")
- Start Date
- End Date

## Usage

1. Enter your Jira credentials and configuration
2. Click "Generate Report"
3. View your worklog data in the table
4. Download as CSV:
   - Detailed report includes all worklog entries
   - Summary report shows daily totals

## Deployment Options

### Local Development
```bash
python server.py
```
Then visit `http://localhost:8000`

### Production Deployment

For production use, consider:

1. **Reverse Proxy**: Set up nginx/Apache in front of the Python server
2. **HTTPS**: Configure SSL certificates for secure communication
3. **Process Manager**: Use supervisor or systemd to manage the Python process
4. **Access Control**: Restrict access to trusted networks/users

Example nginx configuration:
```nginx
server {
    listen 443 ssl;
    server_name your-domain.com;

    ssl_certificate /path/to/cert.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key /path/to/key.pem;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:8000;
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    }
}
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Commit your changes
4. Push to the branch
5. Create a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
